Google Developer Groups (GDGs) are for developers who are interested in Google's developer technology; everything from the Android, Chrome, Drive, and Google Cloud platforms, to product APIs like the Cast API, Maps API, and YouTube API. A GDG can take many forms, from just a few people getting together to watch our latest video, to large gatherings with demos and tech talks, to events like code sprints and hackathons. However, at the core, GDGs are focused on developers and technical content, and the core audience should be developers.

The Google Developers Group Kuala Lumpur is a local community of developers, designers, entrepreneurs and students that have a passion about sharing what they learn about Google technologies such as Android, Chrome, Firebase, Polymer to name a few. GDGKL organises and hosts talks, codelabs, hackathons and much more! The group does not work for Google, but is rather supported by Google. Some of the primary annual events hosted by GDGKL include DevFest KL, IO Extended KL, GCP Extended NEXT, and Android Study Jams. 

GDGKL was founded in 2009 by  Nazrul Kamaruddin, and was known as GTUGKL (Google Technology User Group Kuala Lumpur). After having numerous meetings during 2009, 2010 saw the first ever DevFest being held. DevFest was organized again in 2011, and GTUGKL was renamed to Google Developers Group in 2012. Yap Wen Jiun took over from Nazrul as the lead organizer and held the post for three years before handing over the reigns to Liew Jun Tung, the current lead organizer. GDGKL has been consistently hosting numerous events annually, with the highlight event being DevFest KL 2013, which saw over a thousand participants. The next showcases event in its lineup are Google I/O Extended KL 2016 and DevFest KL 2016.

The Google Developer Group Kuala Lumpur has a clear vision for its future. It wishes to first, scale up capacity to do better quality events and have individual event organising team. Secondly, it wishes to keep track of participants and data to formulate a centralized event reporting system. Thirdly, it wishes to find more ways to capture potential participants, with one of the core tactics being the introduction of Bahasa sessions for diversity. Fourthly, it wishes to keep in touch with speakers, to ensure that there is a better relationship and rapport between event speakers and GDGKL. 